# zen-of-the-west-coast

🤖 Official website for SmartCan™ at [smartcan.jerrytq.com](https://smartcan.jerrytq.com)

🗑️ **Introduction**<br>
In the modern day, there has been a push by companies to have all devices connected - to make them “smart.” From watches to fridges, there are no bounds on what could be connected to the Internet of Things. Our team set out on the goal to make the most mundane “smart” device possible: a trash can. Immersed in peace, Zen of the West Coast set out to make the coolest trash can possible. <br><br>

🔧 **Implementation**<br>
Hardware was the initial focus of our project. We had three main hardware components: a distance sensor, a linear actuator, and an LCD screen. We started with the ultrasonic distance sensor as it was the easiest piece to wire and connect to the Arduino UNO. The sensor emits an ultrasonic pulse and measures the time for the pulse to come back to it, which is sent to the Arduino. The distance can then be calculated based on the known speed of the pulse emitted (speed of sound!). We tested the functionality of the sensor by having it trigger an LED when someone moved within 15 cm of it. <br><br>
With the ultrasonic sensor working, we moved on to the linear actuator. Our goal was to use the ultrasonic sensor to turn on and off the linear actuator. The actuator does not directly interface with the Arduino, so we had to purchase an L298N Motor Drive Module separately. The purpose of the motor module was to allow the Arduino to communicate with the linear actuator. We could trigger the actuator by setting the inputs on the motor module to corresponding values of HIGH and LOW. We would later use the ultrasonic sensor to detect someone’s hand within 15 cm and then send a signal to the linear actuator to trigger the motor.<br><br>
The final piece of hardware is the LCD screen. The wiring for the screen was particularly challenging as it required a potentiometer for variable resistance. The intended purpose of the screen was to display the number of times the trash can has been open and the time since it was last used. The software component for the LCD was straightforward using the included libraries to write text to the LCD. The integration of these pieces was fairly straightforward and consisted entirely of software. We had a function continuously called on the Arduino that would read the distance from the ultrasonic sensor. If the recorded distance was less than 15 cm, we would call a function that would open the trash can lid using the linear actuator, pause for 2 seconds, and then lower the lid. We would then increment the counter that kept track of how many times the trash can had been opened and then rewrite text to our LCD display.<br><br>

🤔 **Design Trade-offs**<br>
Product design always involves trade-offs in one way or another mainly because of limited resources. Our team also made other strategic decisions that prioritize one aspect of our product over another. The two main parts of our product design are the lid-opening mechanism and mounting parts. We made strategic decisions and also ones due to limitations, which all focus on the reliability, functionality, and user experience of the product even if it means the garbage can is slow and heavy at times. It is part of our future work to reduce cost and material while making it more flexible and lightweight.<br><br>

📈 **Future Work**<br>
First, we could improve the evaluation of when the trash can should be emptied by adding a force or weight sensor and deciding based on whether the current weight exceeds a certain threshold. This is better than simply making a guess based on how many times the trash can was opened since it is not guaranteed that the user will put in the same amount of trash each time they open the trash can. Of course, this can be improved further by considering volume as well. The trash can’s weight sensor may report that it is not full even though it actually is, due to the low density of the trash, or vice versa. Thus, options like an automatic compression system or a system where the user can customize the definition of “being full” can be further explored. <br><br>
Improvements can also be made to the current components of the trash can. For instance, a smaller actuator would better fit the minimalistic design of the garbage can while retaining functionality and could potentially fit inside the garbage can. The components could also be mounted more symmetrically so that they are centered on the face of the garbage can, and the wiring could be slightly neater and hidden better. <br><br>
Another improvement we can make is a more extensive software component aligning with the original design philosophy we had in mind: making the trash can “smart” by connecting it to the internet with an Arduino Ethernet Shield 2. We could improve the current website for the trash can by displaying stats so that users can access them from anywhere. Some of these stats can include the current weight, whether it should be emptied or not, how many times it has been opened, the lifetime weight of trash the trash can has stored, and so on. Along with a front end, the website or app will have to include a backend to serve as a database and API for data requests. A WebSocket server can also be implemented to allow the front end to sync in real-time with the trash can, without having to reload the page each time. 
